This directory contains the release 1.0 of ysh.

Ysh(Yan's shell) is a simple shell running on Unix-like operating system. In this directory, there are source codes file,
Makefile and a sample file for executing batch mode command.. 

Usage and Specification
----------------------
Ysh has two methods to run.

The first way is run in interactive mode, simiar to bash or csh. The basic commands are support in ysh.
You could type one command and presss enter key, ysh will run the command you input.
Each line (of the batch file or typed at the prompt) may contain multiple commands separated with the ; character.
Each of the commands separated by a ; should be run simultaneously, or concurrently. 
To exit ysh, just type 'quit' command and presss enter key.

The second way is put all commands input a text file, then pass this text file to ysh. Ysh will run these commands in batch mode.
If you want to exit ysh, type quit command. If there is 'quit' command in one line with multi commands, all commands will be 
executed, and then quit ysh.
If ysh encounter a 'quit' command in the middle of command list file, it will finish current line and exit.  

Compiling and Run
-----------------
Make sure GNU toolchain and Make are installed at first.
The source codes of ysh are managed by Makefile. Just type make in the root directory. It will generage executable file called ysh.
To run this application, just type ./ysh in current directory or /yourdir/ysh in any folder.

Design Overview
---------------
This program include three main parts:

1. Get user inputs until user press 'enter' key or read line by line from file. See function ysh_read_line().
2. Parse user's input or one line, divide into multiple commands. For each command, parse it again to get all arguments.
   See function ysh_run_commands and ysh_split_command.
3. Execute all commands and wait all commands finish. Quit shell while get 'quit' command
   See function ysh_run_commands.

Known bugs or problems
----------------------
1. Could only run commands support by 'execvp'. 
2. Only support two builtin commands: 'cd' and 'quit'. More commands are need.
3. Some advance functions are not support, such as running command at background, pipeline etc. 

License
-------
This project refer part of codes from https://github.com/brenns10/lsh, but change a lot basing on requirement of OS homework. 
This project is developed by Yuzhong Yan at Prairie View A&M University.
You can make any changes and use it in any non-commerical or commerical products. 


